---
layout: post
title: Template
date: 2020-10-04 01:33:23 -0400
tags: [jekyll, template, site formatting, resources]
categories: [tips, blog]
author: meg_gutshall
post_image: /assets/img/posts/box-write-in-it.jpg
excerpt: Everything you need to know to create a blog post or news article in the new Ruby for Good website.
---

## Find out how to create a blog post or news article below

### How to format the filename and where things are located

You’ll find this post in your `all-collections/_posts` directory and its images in your `assets/img/posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. You can rebuild the site in many different ways, but the most common way is to run `bundle exec jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated.

Jekyll requires blog post files to be named according to the following format:

`YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.md`

Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers, and `md` is the file extension representing the format used in the file. After that, include the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

### Post content

#### Front matter

The post front matter consists of: layout, title, date, tags, categories, author, post_image, and excerpt. And does not need quotation marks to indicate strings.

The layout will always be post. Title is the post title. For the date, use the YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS format followed by the timezone (-0500 during standard time, -0400 during daylight savings time).

The tags and categories front matter attributes support multiple values, just add them as an array. Categories are meant to indicate the genre of the post. Tags, on the other hand, go much more in depth and indicate the individual things that the post talks about.
Please include either blog or news as a category front matter attribute in each of the posts you create. This is how I’m going to split the posts into two different pages (‘Our Blog’ and ‘The News’), so each post must have **either** blog or news as a category **but not both**.

The author front matter attribute is where you add the author variable from the `_data/authors.yml` file. The post_image is the featured image stored in the `assets/img/posts` directory. Finally, the excerpt is where you can write a short intro/summary of the blog post or news article—or just leave it blank.

#### Code snippets

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

#### Markdown formatting

Keep in mind, since this we'll be hosting the site on GitHub, let's use GFM (GitHub Flavored Markdown) when writing the blog posts. Here’s a [GFM Spec guide][gfm-specs] and a simpler [cheatsheet][gfm-cheatsheet]. For example, [full reference links][frl] are used in this post.

### More resources

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[gfm-specs]: https://github.github.com/gfm/ "GitHub Flavored Markdown Spec"
[gfm-cheatsheet]: https://guides.github.com/pdfs/markdown-cheatsheet-online.pdf "GitHub Flavored Markdown Cheatsheet"
[frl]: https://github.github.com/gfm/#full-reference-link "GitHub Flavored Markdown Spec: Full Reference Links"

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
